THE BAB - SELECTED WRITINGS
Foundational Texts of the Bahai Faith

QAYYUM AL-ASMA (The Best of Stories)
Commentary on the Surah of Joseph

In the Name of God, the Most Manifest, the Most Holy!

All praise be to God Who hath, through the power of Truth, sent down this Book unto His servant, that it may serve as a shining light for all mankind.

Verily, We have made this Book to be a light amidst the darkness of the world, and a guidance unto those who believe in the unity of God.

The first to believe in Me was He Whom God shall make manifest. He it is Who hath been mentioned in all the Books of God as the Spirit of God and His Word.

O peoples of the earth! Verily, the religion of God is one, and all the Messengers have been sent with one Faith. But the people have differed among themselves, and have made their religion into sects.

THE PERSIAN BAYAN
Laws and Ordinances

Know thou that every word which the Bab uttereth is like unto a seed cast into the ground of the heart of man. It shall grow and bring forth the fruits of knowledge and understanding.

The essence of faith is fewness of words and abundance of deeds; he whose words exceed his deeds, know verily his death is better than his life.

Worship thou God in such wise that if thy worship lead thee to the fire, no alteration in thine adoration would be produced, and so likewise if thy recompense should be paradise.

THE BOOK OF NAMES
Invocations and Prayers

O Thou Who art the Most Manifest of the manifest and the Most Hidden of the hidden! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the hearts and the souls, to make me to be entirely devoted to Thee.

I bear witness that Thou art God, no God is there but Thee. From everlasting Thou wast alone with none beside Thee, and unto everlasting Thou wilt be the same, with none to share Thy dominion.

SELECTIONS FROM THE WRITINGS OF THE BAB

On Unity:
"The essence of these words is this: they have all proceeded from one Source and are shadows of one Light. That differences should exist between them is inevitable."

On Knowledge:
"The first and foremost testimony establishing His truth is His own Self. Next to this testimony is His Revelation. For whoso faileth to recognize either the one or the other He hath established the words He hath revealed as proof of His reality and truth."

On Justice:
"The heaven of true understanding shineth resplendent with the light of two luminaries: tolerance and righteousness."

On the Promised One:
"I am the Primal Point from which have been generated all created things... He Whom God shall make manifest will appear after the year nine."

TABLET TO THE SHERIF OF MECCA

O thou who art reputed to be the defender of the House of God! Know thou that God hath made that House a sanctuary for His servants that they may circle round it and glorify their Lord, the Mighty, the Wise.

But beware lest thou dispute with Him Who is the Sovereign Truth, Who hath appeared with proof and testimony. The day is approaching when God will have exalted His Cause and magnified His testimony in the eyes of all who are in heaven and on earth.

FINAL TESTIMONY

God beareth Me witness, I was not a man of learning, for I was trained as a merchant. In the year sixty [1844 CE] God graciously infused my soul with the conclusive evidence and weighty knowledge which characterize Him Who is the Testimony of God.

The learning current amongst men I studied not; their sciences I acquired not; ask of the city wherein I dwelt, that thou mayest be well assured that I am not of them who speak falsely.

This is naught but a Revelation sent down from the Lord of the worlds, and woe betide them that reject it!

[Note: The Bab (1819-1850) was the forerunner of Baha'u'llah and the founder of the Babi Faith, which evolved into the Bahai Faith. His writings prepared the way for Baha'u'llah's revelation and established many foundational concepts of progressive revelation, unity of religions, and spiritual transformation.]