KOJIKI - EXCERPTS FROM ANCIENT SHINTO TEXT

The Age of the Gods

In the beginning, when the land was young and like floating oil,
drifting like a jellyfish, there arose a thing like a reed-shoot.
From this came the deity Master-of-the-August-Center-of-Heaven.

Next came High-August-Producing-Wondrous deity,
and then Divine-Producing-Wondrous deity.
These three deities were born alone and hid their forms.

The names of the deities born next from a thing like a reed-shoot
when the earth was young were:
Pleasant-Reed-Shoot-Prince-Elder deity
and Heavenly-Eternally-Standing deity.

Creation of the Japanese Islands

At this time the heavenly deities commanded the two deities
Izanagi and Izanami, saying:
"Make, consolidate, and give birth to this drifting land."
Granting them the Heavenly Jeweled Spear,
they charged them with this task.

So the two deities, standing upon the Floating Bridge of Heaven,
pushed down the jeweled spear and stirred with it.
When they lifted up the spear,
the brine dripping from its point piled up and became an island.
This was the island Onogoro.

Birth of the Sun Goddess

When the time came for Izanami to give birth to the fire deity,
she was burned and died.
But from her body were born many deities.

Then Izanagi, wishing to meet his deceased wife,
went to the land of the dead.
But when he saw her corrupted form,
he fled in fear and blocked the pass to the underworld.

After purifying himself from the pollution of death,
as Izanagi washed his left eye, there was born
Amaterasu-Omikami, the Great Heaven-Shining deity.
From his right eye was born Tsukuyomi, the Moon deity.
From his nose was born Susanoo, the Storm deity.

Amaterasu was given rule over the High Heavenly Plain,
Tsukuyomi over the realm of night,
and Susanoo over the sea.

This is the foundation of Shinto understanding:
the divine nature flows through all things,
the kami dwell in mountains, rivers, trees, and stones,
and the emperor is descended from the sun goddess herself.

[Note: This is a condensed version focusing on creation mythology.
The complete Kojiki contains extensive genealogies and historical accounts.]
